Now let's move on to blockers.
A blocker is a blocked or impassable work item that
is restricting the flow of work.
It is the work item itself that is the blocker.
The reasons that things cause work to stop or slow down are
really the same for both Kanban and agile/scrum.
One example is company policy change. Since the time you may have
specified the work and when you actually did the work,
the company policy changed.
Now you need to discuss the issue back with the product owner,
the customer or maybe even senior management, so the work
is blocked until you get that clarified.
Also, there may be changes to laws and regulations.
Things change fast in the health care industry,
for example,
and you are at an impasse on how to handle a work item, so that is blocked.
Another very common one, of course, is the clarification of requirements.
You are unclear as to what is really meant in the spec and you
need it to be clarified and the subject matter expert is not
available, so the work is blocked.
The customer or subject matter expert may be unavailable.
This one might be somewhat common, unfortunately,
and you need her guidance before proceeding, or the customer just
doesn't know the answer, and you must do more research to answer your
questions or issues, so the work is blocked.
Now, how about someone on vacation?
Well,
no, that situation is not a blocker. That is just further
limiting your work in progress from, say,
four resources to three. No work item itself is blocked; you
just have fewer resources to perform the work.
Remember, a blocker is the work item that is restricting the flow of work.
And, of course, this is to just name a few.
I am sure you have many more examples of things that can
block work. Identify and document blockers.
You want to easily recognize which work items are blockers, so you can
focus your attention on them and eliminate them.
Therefore, you should always visually identify your blockers.
So, mark the blocked work item with a special color or other visual cue.
This way, you can easily see the blocked items and discuss them at each standup.
Ensure you track the reason,
status progress, and other pertinent information for each blocked work item.
For example,
reason, the algorithm to determine if multi‑tendered
transactions should be allowed is not clear,
and the subject matter expert, Mary, must be consulted and she is unavailable.
Let's face it, we want to remove blockers as quickly as humanly possible.
Here are some approaches to removing blockers for both Kanban and agile/scrum.
Blockers are discussed at daily standups, discussing the status of the blocker
and any ongoing actions underway to mitigate or solve the blocker. You must
have a strong issue escalation process.
This means you need to know who in management, or which stakeholder,
may need to be consulted for each type of issue.
Escalation policies are clearly defined and documented ahead of time,
and all team members clearly understand them, since not everyone
may be available to initiate the escalation.
Escalation policies are jointly agreed to by up or downstream
partners and/or other management and stakeholders.
This should go without saying,
but track all your blockers and issues visually, and with clear reasons.
Now let's see how blockers are handled between Kanban and scrum.
Okay,
Kanban first. Work item is tagged as blocked. During standup, all blockers
are discussed to determine the next course of action.
Work is stopped on the blocked work item, of course.
The work item is set aside in the work stream step.
It is tagged and visually identified, and will be discussed at each standup.
And, now that the item is blocked,
the resource is free, so the resource will pull the next work
item forward from the upstream done buffer.
Now,
you might even put the work item in the backlog that's blocked, so
if it has remained blocked for a very long time,
you still leave it tagged as blocked, but move it from the
value stream step to an area of the backlog, maybe a blocked
backlog or aged blocked items.
This might keep your board a little cleaner.
Hopefully you don't have blocked items blocked for that long, but again,
it would be nice to move them off the value stream steps and
put them in the backlog in special areas.
Okay, blocker resolved? Well, when the resource for the value
stream step that had the blocked item is now free, then that
would remove the blocked item tag and the resource would begin
working the item once again.
Now let's discuss agile/scrum.
The user story is tagged as blocked,
the blocker is discussed during every standup,
and work is stopped on the blocked work item.
So, start work on the next priority backlog item for the following sprint
or sprint+1 if you will. Leave the blocked user story in the sprint in
case it becomes unblocked during the sprint,
and you may want to stop the sprint+1 item and go back
to the one now that's unblocked,
or push forward the blocked user story to the next sprint's backlog.
You may even split the user story into two or more parts and
complete a portion of the user story and place the remaining
work in the next sprint's backlog.
Also, put the item back in the backlog if the item has remained
blocked for quite some time. So you'd move the user story from the
sprint and place it in the backlog,
usually in a spot or area called maybe blocked work items
over 15 days or something like that.
If the blocker is resolved during the sprint in which it was blocked,
decide what to do. If the sprint has been completed,
then review the user story that was blocked, or portion of the user
story if it was split, and plan for it in the next sprint, or if
there's still time left in the sprint,
you may decide to resume development of the blocked user
story. Blockers versus bottlenecks.
Blockers are not bottlenecks, and bottlenecks are not blockers.
A blocker is an individual work item that is stuck
and cannot be worked any further, and we previously gave you several examples.
A bottleneck is an issue with capacity,
and you have a buffer filling up with too much completed
work and you can't work it fast enough through the value
stream or through the sprint.
What is similar between the two is that they both impede the flow of work, but what each one means is different.